Add health checks documentation (#673)
nginx/agent: site/content/configuration/health-checks.md

---

> title: "Health Checks"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Health Checks"
```

We use Sentence case in titles and headers.

I will open a separate PR to correct all the docs titles once this is merged.

Author: OK. Thanks @Jcahilltorre

draft: false
weight: 400
toc: true
tags: [ "docs" ]

> docs: "DOCS-XXX"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> docs: "DOCS-XXX"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

categories: ["configuration"]
doctypes: ["task"]
---

## Overview

> To monitor the state of the NGINX Agent, there is a health endpoint in the REST API that can be used.

Reviewer: Avoid passive when possible:

```suggestion
The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of the NGINX Agent.
```

> ## Configure REST API
> To enable the REST API, the following configuration is needed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the REST API

To enable the REST API, use the following configuration:

```

> ```nginx configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```nginx
```

> ## Configure REST API
> To enable the REST API, the following configuration is needed:
> ```nginx configuration
> api:
>   host: 127.0.0.1
>   port: 8038
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the REST API

To enable the REST API, use the following configuration:

```nginx configuration
api:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 8038
```
```

Markdown: Blank lines between different types of content.
Avoid passive.

> ## Using health checks
> Once the REST API is enabled, calling the `/health` endpoint will return the following json response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using health checks

After you enable the REST API, calling the `/health` endpoint returns the following JSON response:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "status": "OK",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "registration",
      "status": "OK"
    },
    {
      "name": "commandConnection",
      "status": "OK"
    },
    {
      "name": "metricsConnection",
      "status": "OK"
    }
  ]
}
```

> The top level `status` field is the overall health status of the NGINX Agent. There are 3 states that the health status can be in.
> 1. `PENDING`: The NGINX Agent is still determining the it's health status.
> 2. `OK`: The NGINX Agent is in a healthy state.
> 3. `ERROR`: The NGINX Agent is in an unhealthy state.
> 
> To determine the overall health of the NGINX Agent, there are 3 checks that are performed.
> 1. `registration`: This checks if the NGINX Agent has successfully registered with the management plane server.
> 2. `commandConnection`: This checks if the NGINX Agent is still able to receive and send commands.
> 3. `metricsConnection`: This checks if the NGINX Agent is still able to send metric reports.
> 
> If any of these checks have an `ERROR` status, then the overall status of the NGINX Agent will change to `ERROR` as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level `status` field is the overall health status of NGINX Agent. The health status can return three different states:

1. `PENDING`: NGINX Agent is still determining its health status.
2. `OK`: NGINX Agent is in a healthy state.
3. `ERROR`: NGINX Agent is in an unhealthy state.

We do three checks to determine the overall health of the NGINX Agent:

1. `registration`: Checks if NGINX Agent has successfully registered with the management plane server.
2. `commandConnection`: Checks if NGINX Agent is still able to receive and send commands.
3. `metricsConnection`: Checks if NGINX Agent is still able to send metric reports.

If any of the checks are in an `ERROR` status, then the overall status of NGINX Agent will change to `ERROR` as well.

```

---

> title: "Health Checks"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Health checks"
```

draft: false
weight: 400
toc: true
tags: [ "docs" ]
categories: ["configuration"]
doctypes: ["task"]
---

## Overview

> The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of NGINX Agent.

Reviewer: "check" is one of the words we consider not ESL-friendly (English as Second Language). I would try to avoid it.

> The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of NGINX Agent.

Reviewer: Alternatives:
Confirm, verify, review, determine, inspect...

> The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of NGINX Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The REST API includes a health endpoint to verify the status of NGINX Agent.
```

> The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of NGINX Agent.

Reviewer 2: Can we change to your suggestion?
cc: @Jcahilltorre

> The REST API includes a health endpoint for keeping track of the status of NGINX Agent.

Reviewer: Waiting on @dhurley to commit this suggestion.

## Configure the REST API

To enable the REST API, use the following configuration:

```nginx
api:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 8038

> ```

Reviewer 2: @dhurley should we inform the user to which file needs to change?

> To enable the REST API, add the following configuration to the NGINX Agent configuration file located here `/etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the REST API, add the following configuration to the NGINX Agent configuration file, `/etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf`:
```
Not fond of the "here" approach.
